 Topic: An AI-Powered Adaptive E-Learning Platform 1. INTRODUCTION E-learning has become a vital part of modern education. Modern education has adopted E-Learning to maximize the avenues by which students access learning materials online. Students can easily access information on their preferred topics and learn from the comfort of their homes at their convenience. Using computers and mobile phones connected to the internet, students can browse the learning materials made available by their tutors. It can be said that E-learning has made life simpler for both students and lecturers. Recently, with the introduction of AI in E-learning, both learners and students can easily create learning content that covers any topic they want. While there is some concern about the potential negative impact of excessive AI use, it cannot be denied that E-Learning has come to stay and, when used correctly, can enhance learning efficiency. Of course, despite its many benefits, these E-learning platforms still face some issues that plague many users. Issues such as content fragmentation, in which learning materials are scattered across multiple platforms, can cause learners to comb through several webpages just to access them. The time it takes students to browse and find what they are looking for can, in several ways, reduce their interest in the content. There is also the issue with how rigid and static most learning platforms are. Some E-learning platforms allow only courses structured by a tutor. In this instance, the course made available only follows the roadmap drawn by the tutor. The students would have no choice but to follow the already planned tutorials, without the option it personalize them to their preferences. They cannot have the option to select only what they want and focus on just that. This can lead to excessive time wasted, as the learner has to go through multiple pieces of content to locate the material they want. Also, some e-learning platforms are designed to suit the needs of a certain type of person. While their usability function has been met, the user experience is ignored. A system that benefits a fast learner would not necessarily, to some satisfaction level, benefit a slow learner. This negatively affects the learner, reducing their satisfaction and expectations for the platform. Designing a system that focuses on both usability and user experience should then be the focal point of every e-learning system. In this case, an adaptive learning approach is needed , in which the learner's cognitive performance can be measured, analysed , and used to dynamically adjust the learning engine to better suit their preferences and improve efficiency. Using the learner's own cognitive data to improve the platform without lowering Usability is ideal. Holmes, Bialik, and Fadel (2019) explain that AI in education can enhance learning experiences by providing personalized content, automated feedback, and intelligent tutoring support. Similarly, Luckin et al. (2016) argue that AI systems can act as intelligent assistants that adapt learning materials based on learners' needs, thereby improving engagement and performance. Furthermore, Al- Fraihat et al. (2020) highlight that the success of e-learning systems depends on system quality, information quality, and user satisfaction. This project proposes developing an AI-powered adaptive learning platform that dynamically adjusts to users' performance, preferences, and interactions to improve learning efficiency 2. PROBLEM STATEMENT Although numerous E-learning platforms are available for students to use at their convenience , several limitations still hinder learners. There is the issue of content fragmentation, where Learners must search across multiple websites, Video Tutorials, articles, and digital materials to gather relevant content focused solely on the topic they want . There is also the case of having to pay for premium subscriptions before gaining access to some learning materials. If the learner can't proceed with purchasing premium content, they are forced to abandon their studies. Additionally, some notable e-learning systems often provide static content, leaving learners no way to personalize it to their needs. In simple terms, they get what has been provided, with no option to tune it to their preferences. Most learning platforms also cannot analyze learners' performance and dynamically use the collected data to adapt a roadmap and personalize learning behaviors and settings, which will greatly benefit their learning routines. It has been researched and concluded that an unstructured content presentation can overwhelm learners, reducing retention and engagement (Sun et al., 2008). Therefore, there is a need for an AI-powered system that can create a course based on user input, implement a dynamically adjustable course structure, integrate multimedia resources, and adapt learning pathways based on real-time performance data , and incorporate a system that learn and over time creates a platform that improves both usability and user experience . 3. OBJECTIVES 3.1 General Objective To develop an AI-powered online learning platform that can be used to generate personalized courses, include multimedia, and provide an engaging, structured, and adaptive learning experience for users. 3.2 Specific Objectives To develop a secure web-based learning platform . To create a personalized course creation system that allows the user to select a number of chapters, course difficulty, subjects, third-party video… To create a structured course roadmap. To implement a Finite State Learning Model (Beginner, Intermediate, Advanced) for automated course generation. To develop a Rule-Based Adaptive Decision Engine that dynamically adjusts to the c ourse difficulty level . To implement learning aids such as quizzes, flashcards, summaries, and tasks. To create a learning analytics dashboard for visualizing user performance trends. Implement the course recommended based on the collected data. 4. METHODOLOGY 4.1 Research Design The project will adopt the Agile Development Methodology, allowing iterative development, testing, and refinement. The first phase would focus on requirements analysis, during which a survey would be conducted within the IT department to collect student input on their perceptions of E-learning platforms and expectations for an AI-based learning platform. A Google Form will be used to collect the data, and it will be analyzed using Excel. Based on the feedback, we will proceed to the next phase. In the system design phase, we will implement a both the frontend and the backend. The frontend will be built with technologies such as NestJS , React, HTML, and CSS. A responsive design approach will be employed to ensure the design is clean and efficient. The backend, which will handle the database, will be implemented using Neon PostgreSQL. To ensure the system analyzes learners' data and dynamically adjusts to improve learning efficiency, a database will be created to store all data. Their system will also make better use of browser cookies to adjust to learners' needs. YouTube Data API will be implemented to allow video integration during course creation. Lastly, a LLM like Gemini will be implemented to handle natural language processing. Afterwards, the system built will be tested by a selected poll of students , and based on their feedback, further iterations will be implemented before deployment on Vercel . 5. EXPECTED OUTCOME A fully functional AI-powered learning platform. Real-time learning progress tracking and cognitive analytics. Integration of multimedia resources ( YouTube tutorial videos). An adaptive learning system that allows learning aids such as Quizzes, tasks , flashcards, and summaries . 6. CONCLUSION This project aims to develop an AI-Powered learning platform engineered to address key limitations of traditional e-learning platforms. By integrating a system that processes natural language to automatically generate courses, create a structured roadmap, include video content, and an adaptive decision engine that analyzes the learner's performance to deliver a efficient learning ecosystem, the course limitations highlighted in the problem statement can be addressed. Supported by existing research on AI in education (Holmes et al., 2019; Luckin et al., 2016), e-learning success factors (Sun et al., 2008), and system evaluation models (Al- Fraihat et al., 2020), this project will align with modern trends and better utilize AI systems in education. The proposed system has the potential to significantly enhance accessibility, engagement, and learning efficiency among undergraduate students, particularly in IT and Computer Science disciplines at the University of Energy and Natural Resources. 7. REFERENCES Al- Fraihat , D., Joy, M., Sinclair, J., & Masa’deh , R. (2020). Evaluating e-learning systems success: An empirical study. Computers in Human Behavior, 102, 67–86. Dillenbourg , P., Schneider, D., & Synteta , P. (2002). Virtual learning environments. Proceedings of th e 3rd Hellenic Conference on Information & Communication Technologies in Education. Holmes, W., Bialik, M., & Fadel, C. (2019). Artificial intelligence in education: Promises and implications for teaching and learning. Center for Curriculum Redesign. Luckin, R., Holmes, W., Griffiths, M., & Forcier, L. B. (2016). Intelligence unleashed: An argument for AI in education. Pearson Education. Roll, I., & Wylie, R. (2016). Evolution and revolution in artificial intelligence in education. International Journal of Artificial Intelligence in Education, 26(2), 582–599. Sun, P.-C., Tsai, R. J., Finger, G., Chen, Y.-Y., & Yeh, D. (2008). What drives a successful e-learning? Computers & Education, 50(4), 1183–1202. E-learning has become the norm in modern education. Undergraduate Students can now log on to learning platforms and have access to learning materials that they can consume at their own pace and convenience. However, while these E-learning platforms have come to ease the learning process for students, some limitations still persist that, in one way or another, keep hindering how much students can use these systems. Limitations such as content fragmentation, where students had to source information from different sources, static and unstructured content, where students found it hard to follow a preplanned path that most of the time contains irrelevant content that doesn't align with what they are looking for, and lastly the lack of an adaptive system that learn from the student in order to better improve the content being pushed to them. In this instance, while E-learning platforms are good for students, they have a negative impact on the cognitive functions, which, if not addressed, hinder their learning processes. 
